---
title: 'Typography'
description: 'Guidance for using and tuning typography.'
layout: 'default'
---

# Typography

Guidance for using and tuning typography.

## Typography clusters

Shuriken UI provides `BaseHeading`, `BaseParagraph` and `BaseText` components to render titles and body copy. These components share size and weight props and map to an underlying type system to ensure consistent typography throughout your app.

::code-group

```vue [Comp.vue]
<template>
  <BaseHeading
    as="h4"
    size="lg"
    weight="semibold"
    class="mb-4"
  >
    Iam a text heading
  </BaseHeading>
  <BaseParagraph size="md">
    Iam a text paragraph here to show you how to
    use the typography components. Each one has a
    configurable size, weight and line height.
  </BaseParagraph>
</template>
```

#preview
:example-clusters
::

## Formatting

You can nest typography components to create rich text formatting.

::code-group

```vue [Comp.vue]
<template>
  <BaseParagraph size="sm">
    This is a
    <BaseText weight="semibold">
      very important
    </BaseText>
    message!
  </BaseParagraph>
</template>
```
::

## Type scale

The typographic system is based on a 13 step scale, every step has a corresponding font-size, line-height and letter-spacing value which are all designed to be used in combination.

:example-type-scale

:example-type-scale-table

## Font weight

The following weights are supported. When using the typography components, you can use the `weight` prop to set the font weight.

:example-type-weight

:example-type-weight-table

## Customizing fonts

Both `BaseHeading` and `BaseParagraph` components use the `--font-sans` and `--font-heading` CSS variables to set the font family.

You can override them in your CSS file to use custom fonts, note that fonts should be loaded separately in your project.

::code-group
```css [~/assets/css/main.css]
@theme {
  /** Fonts */
  --font-sans: Inter, sans-serif;
  --font-heading: Roboto, sans-serif;
}
```
::

::info-block{icon='devicon:tailwindcss'}
With this new CSS variables approach, Tailwind v4 is able to infer font classes if your variables start with the `--font-*` prefix. If you create a `--font-custom` variable, Tailwind will automatically generate classes like `font-custom`.

#title
Important note
::

### Loading fonts

Use the [`@nuxt/fonts`](https://fonts.nuxt.com/){:target="_blank"} module to load custom fonts in your Nuxt.js project.

::code-group
```bash [Terminal]
pnpm add -D @nuxt/fonts
```
::

::code-group
```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    '@shuriken-ui/nuxt',
    '@nuxt/fonts', // [!code ++]
  ],
  fonts: {
    experimental: {
      processCSSVariables: true, // [!code ++]
    },
  },
})
```
::
