---
title: 'Getting started'
description: 'Learn how to setup Shuriken UI in your project.'
layout: 'default'
---

# Getting started
Learn how to setup Shuriken UI in your project.

## Installation
The installation process is simple and straightforward. You can install Shuriken UI in your project using the following methods.

::tab-group{:labels='["Nuxt"]'}

  ::code-timeline
    :::code-timeline-item
    :::code-group
      ```sh [Terminal]
      npx nuxi@latest init <project-name>
      cd <project-name>
      ```
    :::

    #title
    Create a new project

    #description
    Start by creating a new Nuxt project.  
    *See [nuxt.com](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/installation) for more information.*
    :::
    :::code-timeline-item
    :::code-group
      ```sh [Terminal]
      pnpm add -D @shuriken-ui/nuxt tailwindcss @shuriken-ui/tailwind
      ```
    :::

    #title
    Install Shuriken UI

    #description
    Install Tailwind 4 and Shuriken UI using your package manager.
    :::
    :::code-timeline-item
    :::code-group
      ```js [nuxt.config.ts]
      export default defineNuxtConfig({
        modules: [
          '@shuriken-ui/nuxt', // [!code ++]
        ],
        css: [
          '~/assets/css/main.css', // [!code ++]
        ],
      })
      ```
    :::

    #title
    Update your Nuxt configuration

    #description
    Add Shuriken UI module and setup your Tailwind CSS file.
    :::
    :::code-timeline-item
    :::code-group
      ```css [~/assets/css/main.css]
      @import 'tailwindcss';
      @import '@shuriken-ui/tailwind';

      @custom-variant dark (&:where(.dark, .dark *));

      @theme {
        /* Customize Shuriken UI */
      }
      ```
    :::

    #title
    Configure Tailwind CSS

    #description
    Create a `assets/css/main.css` to load Tailwind and Shuriken UI theme.
    :::
  ::
::

## Theming concepts

Get the most out of Shuriken UI by exploring more concepts and features.

::link-box-grid
  :::link-box{to ="/docs/theming"}
  Learn how theming works in Shuriken UI and get a grasp on the basic concepts.
  #title
  Theme Overview
  :::
  :::link-box{to ="/docs/theming/colors"}
  Learn how to setup your branding color, your gray shade and additional support colors.
  #title
  Theme Colors
  :::
  :::link-box{to ="/docs/theming/dark-mode"}
  Learn more about Shuriken UI's native dark mode and how components are built around it
  #title
  Dark Mode
  :::
  :::link-box{to ="/docs/theming/visual-style"}
  Learn more about Shuriken UI components key concepts and how to customize them.
  #title
  Visual Style
  :::
  :::link-box{to ="/docs/theming/typography"}
  Explore the typography system and how to customize it, including fonts, sizes etc...
  #title
  Typography
  :::
  :::link-box{to ="/docs/theming/breakpoints"}
  Learn how Shuriken Ui behaves in responsive viewports and how to customize it.
  #title
  Breakpoints
  :::
::
